Synth algorithm for  reading an arabic text
1. If all vowels are written then synth should read all text.
Subrules:
a) If the synth sees any word with the defininite article "الْ" after any word
 then the synth shouldn't  read the alif in this article. This case of the
 language is called همزة الوصل - hamzatu-l-wasl. however, this alif is read
 with hamza at the beginning of the phrase or after the pause.
Example:
هَمْزَةُ الْوَصْلِ - (alif shouldn't be read because the alif-lam is written after any word. there is a word hamzatu in this example. so, the synth should
 read هَمْزَةُلْوَصْلِ together)
Example:
كِتَابُ الْوَلَدِ - (the same case - كِتَابُلْوَلَدِ together)
مِنَ الْبَيْتِ - (the same case)
Example:
الْبَيْتُ جَمِيلٌ. (alif-lam is at the beginning of the phrase, so, it should
 be read as أَلْبَيْتُ.)
b) If the word with the article alif-lam is the first word in the sentence
 then synth should read alif with hamza.
Example:
الْقَلَمُ جَدِيدٌ. - (the word الْقَلَمُ is the first in this example. so,
 synth should read this alif with the hamza as أَلْقَلَمُ) 
الْبِنْتُ جَمِيلَةٌ. - (the same case - أَلْبِنْتُ)
c) If the synth sees after any word a period, comma, question sign, exclamation
 sign or any punctuation, where the phrase is interrupted then the last vowel
 shouldn't  be read with the synth.
Example:
قَرَأَ الْكِتَابَ. - (the last vowel fatha فَتْحَةٌ shouldn't be read with
 the synth because of the period at the end of this example. so, الكِتَابْ
 is read)
Example:
هَلْ عِنْدَهُ سَيَّارَةٌ قَدِيمَةٌ؟ - (the last ta-marbuta with the damma-tan
 تَنْوِينُ الضَّمَّةِ فَوقِ التَّاءِ الْمَرْبُوطَةِ isn't read because of
 question sign. so, the word قَدِيمَةٌ is read as قَدِيمَ)
Example:
أَهْلاً وَمَرْحَبًا! - (the same case but with alif at the end of sentence and
 تَنْوِينُ الْفَتْحَةِ فَوْقِ الْأَلِفِ  because of the exclamation sign. so,
 the word مَرْحَبًا is read مَرْحَبَا)
so, we make the following resume for interruption form:
The following vowels shouldn't be read at the end of phrase:
فتحة، ضمة، كسرة، تنوين الفتحة، تنوين الضمة، تنوين الكسرة.
التاء المربوطة turns into sokoon سُكُونٌ at the end of the phrase. it isn't
 important what vowel it has.
d) If the synth sees after the definite article alif-lam one of the following letters:
ن, ل, ظ, ط, ض, ص, ش, س, ز, ر, ذ, د, ث, ت
Then the synth should read lam in the article like the upper written letters,
 so-called solar letters حُرُوفُ الشَّمسِ. By the way, no sokoon سُكُونٌ
 stands over lam in such cases, and there is a sign shadda شَدَّةٌ over
 the solar letters.
Example:
النَّاسُ، اللَّحْمُ، الظُّهْرُ، الطَّالِبُ، الضَّيْفُ، الصَّدُّ، الشَّمسُ،
 السَّلاَمُ، الزَّهْرَةُ، الرَّجُلُ، الذَّمُّ، الدِّيكُ، الثَّمَرُ، التَّاجِرُ.
The other so-called lunar letters حُرُوفُ القَمَرِ are read without changing
 lam in the definite article. Here are they:
ي, و, ه, م, ك, ق, ف, غ, ع, خ, ح, ج, ب, ا
Example:
الْيَوْمُ، الْوَلَدُ، الْهِرُّ، الْمَرُّ، الْكَلْبُ، الْقَلْبُ، الْفَقِيرُ،
الْغَنِيُّ، الْعَيْنُ، الْخَبَرُ، الْحِمَارُ، الْجَامِعَةُ، الْبُسْتَانُ،
 الْأسْمَاءُ.
As we see in the last example, the synth should read it without problems
 because there is a sign sokoon after lam in the article.
e) If the synth sees a simple alif i.e. an alif without hamza then this alif
 should be read like in the subrule a). so, this is more general rule for همزة
 الوصل. Certainly, there no problems for the synth to read the fully vowelled
 (with حركات written) text.
example:
اِقْرَأْ وَاكْتُبْ (the first simple alif should be read with hamza, but the
 second shouldn't be read at all: إِقْرَأْ وَكْتُبْ.)
اُكْتُبْ وَاقْرَأْ (the same case: أُكْتُبْ وَقْرَأْ.)
اِجْلِسْ but قُلْتُ اجْلِسْ (if there is a pause between قُلْتُ and اجْلِسْ in
 this phrase then it should be read as قُلْتْ اِجْلِسْ, otherwise,
 قُلْتُ اجْلِسْ.)
Example:
هَذَا ابْنُ الْمُدِيرِ (the word اِبْنٌ is a one of the exceptions. But for
 the synth there is no problem to read it because of the alif without hamza.
 We will discuss these words later, while studying problem of reading
 without vowels.)
(to be continued)
